#summary Building from source for all platforms
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

===Building from Source===

===Linux===
To compile the latest SVN version, follow these steps:

  #1 Download and install the latest version of [http://www.swig.org SWIG] (preferably 2.0.0+) with your package manager.
   If you are using *Ubuntu*, you can install it via Synaptic Package Manager (package name 'swig'). You will also need
   to install the python-dev package, and build-essential (and python-pygame if you want to run the testbed).
{{{
sudo apt-get install build-essential python-dev swig python-pygame subversion
}}}
  #2 Check out the SVN
{{{
svn checkout http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ pybox2d
}}}
  #3 Build and install the pybox2d library
{{{
python setup.py build
# Assuming everything goes well...
sudo python setup.py install --force
}}}

==== Errors ====

==== Old versions of setuptools ====

If you see an error like this:
{{{
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/distutils/command/build_ext.py", line 460, in
build_extension
    ext_path = self.get_ext_fullpath(ext.name)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/distutils/command/build_ext.py", line 633, in
get_ext_fullpath
    filename = self.get_ext_filename(modpath[-1])
  File "build/bdist.linux-i686/egg/setuptools/command/build_ext.py", line
85, in get_ext_filename
KeyError: '_Box2D'
}}}

Upgrade your setuptools version. 'setup.py' has been patched in the pybox2d branch
for the upcoming 2.1.0 release, but not for the trunk (2.0.2 series).

==== 64-bit Linux ====
Building from the 2.0.2b1 source release, there will be errors like:
{{{
Box2D/Box2D_wrap.cpp:3528: error: cast from b2Joint* to int32* loses precision
}}}
This issue was fixed soon after the release, but it was never repackaged for another release. If you update the individual

files found in [http://code.google.com/p/pybox2d/source/detail?r=184 this] SVN version and recompile, you'll have a mostly identical copy to 2.0.2b1, 

just with a few additional setters. If you don't care about having perfect 2.0.2b1 compatibility, try building from the latest SVN instead.

===Windows===

  #1 Install [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mingw/MinGW-5.1.4.exe?modtime=1209244789&big_mirror=1 MinGW] and then [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mingw/MSYS-1.0.10.exe MSYS] so that you can compile Box2D and pybox2d. 
  #2 Install [http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/swig/swigwin-1.3.40.zip SWIG] for making the Python wrapper. Install it in a location in your PATH, or add the SWIG directory to your PATH.
  #3 Create Python\Lib\distutils\distutils.cfg, if it doesn't exist, and add:
{{{
[build]
compiler=mingw32
[build_ext]
compiler=mingw32
}}}
  #4 If you want to build from the SVN, install the [http://subversion.tigris.org/files/documents/15/43360/Setup-Subversion-1.5.1.en-us.msi Subversion client]. Check out the project by doing
{{{
svn checkout http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ pybox2d
}}}
  #5 Run MSYS and locate your pybox2d directory
{{{
cd /c/path/to/pybox2d/Box2D
}}}
  #6 Build and install pybox2d
{{{
setup.py build
setup.py install --force
}}}


=== OS X ===

==== Dependencies ===

To build pybox2d, you will need:
  * Apple Developer Tools (see below)
  * SWIG (see below)
  * Python (of course)

==== Install Apple Developer Tools ====

  # This step is only required if the Apple Developer tools have not already been installed. 
  # Download the Apple Developer Tools or install them from the System Installer CD provided with your Mac.
  # Download from: http://developer.apple.com/tools/
  # This will give your system all the tools it needs for software development.
  # These tools are required for you to proceed to the next step.

==== SWIG Installation ====

  # Download the latest source release of SWIG [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/swig/swig-2.0.3.tar.gz here]
  # Place the file onto your Desktop  
  # Open Terminal.app located in the Applications/Utilities folder
  # Then enter the following into the terminal window:
{{{
cd ~/Desktop
tar -zxf swig-*.tar.gz
cd swig-*
./configure
make
sudo make install
<ENTER THE ADMINISTRATOR/ROOT PASSWORD>
}}}
  # Hopefully all went well and no errors occurred.
  # Close the Terminal.app window
  # SWIG is now installed onto the system and we can now move to the next step.

==== pybox2d Installation ====

  # Download the latest source distribution of pybox2d [http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/files/Box2D-2.0.2b1.zip here]
  # Place the file onto your Desktop  
  # Open Terminal.app located in the Applications/Utilities folder
  # Then enter the following into the terminal window:
{{{
cd ~/Desktop
unzip Box2D-*.zip
cd Box2D-*/
python setup.py build
}}}
  If all went well,
{{{
sudo python setup.py install --force
<ENTER THE ADMINISTRATOR/ROOT PASSWORD>
}}}
  Close the Terminal.app window and see the links on the project home page for the testbed and documentation.

==== OS X Snow Leopard / 64-bit Installations ====

Building from the 2.0.2b1 source release, there will be errors like:
{{{
Box2D/Box2D_wrap.cpp:3528: error: cast from b2Joint* to int32* loses precision
}}}
This issue was fixed soon after the release, but it was never repackaged for another release. If you update the individual files found in [http://code.google.com/p/pybox2d/source/detail?r=184 this] SVN version and recompile, you'll have a mostly identical copy to 2.0.2b1, just with a few additional setters. If you don't care about having perfect 2.0.2b1 compatibility, try building from the latest SVN instead (see the next section).

==== Building pybox2d from the SVN ====

This is only necessary if you want the latest features that pybox2d has to offer.
Follow the above headings *Install Apple Developer Tools* and *SWIG Installation*. Now follow the steps 2 and beyond for Linux.