#summary Downloading and installing information for various platforms
#labels Phase-Deploy

==Download Notes==

===Windows===

Simply download the latest release for your version of Python (2.4 or 2.5) [http://code.google.com/p/pybox2d/downloads/list here].

Included in the installer is: 
 * Compiled library (installed in Python\Lib\site-packages\Box2D2\)
 * Testbed and demos. (installed in Python\Box2D\testbed)
 * SWIG interface. (installed in Python\Box2D\interface)

The testbed and demos require [http://www.pygame.org pygame].

If you want to build from source, the steps are essentially the same as for Linux.　See the notes at the top of setup.py.

===Linux and OS X===

Starting with release 2.0.1b4, I will put a source release that includes the Box2D C++ source to make it easier to install on Linux. If you would like to do it manually from the latest SVN version, follow these steps:

  #1 Download and install the latest version of [http://www.swig.org SWIG] with your package manager (hopefully it'll have 1.3.31+. OSX users might run into some problems with this). If you are using Ubuntu (8.04 has been tested), you can install it via Synaptic Package Manager (package name 'swig'). You will also need to install the python-dev package, and build-essentials (and python-pygame if you want to run the testbed).
  #3 Download the Box2D source from [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/box2d/Box2D_v2.0.1.zip here] (the latest supported source). 
  #4 Download these files from the SVN ([http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/interface/Box2D.i Box2D.i], [http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/interface/Box2D_printing.i Box2D_printing.i], and [http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/setup.py setup.py]) and put them in Box2D/Source. Run 'python setup.py build' to build the project. Then running 'sudo python setup.py install' should then take care of installing the library.
  #5 Optional: Install [http://www.pygame.org pygame]. Try the ported testbed [http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/files/pyBox2D-testbed-2.0.1b4.zip demos].