#summary Installing pyBox2D under OS X

=== OS X Installation Guide ===

As there is no installer for pyBox2D under OS X right now, you will have to build it from the source.

==== Dependencies ===

To build pyBox2D, you will need:
  * Apple Developer Tools (see below)
  * SWIG (see below)
  * Python (of course)

==== Install Apple Developer Tools ====

  # This step is only required if the Apple Developer tools have not already been installed. 
  # Download the Apple Developer Tools or install them from the System Installer CD provided with your Mac.
  # Download from: http://developer.apple.com/tools/
  # This will give your system all the tools it needs for software development.
  # These tools are required for you to proceed to the next step.

==== SWIG Installation ====

  # Download the latest source release of SWIG: http://downloads.sourceforge.net/swig/swig-1.3.36.tar.gz
  # Place the file onto your Desktop  
  # Open Terminal.app located in the Applications/Utilities folder
  # Then enter the following into the terminal window:
{{{
cd ~/Desktop
tar -zxf swig-*.tar.gz
cd swig-*
./configure
make
sudo make install
<ENTER THE ADMINISTRATOR/ROOT PASSWORD>
}}}
  # Hopefully all went well and no errors occurred.
  # Close the Terminal.app window
  # SWIG is now installed onto the system and we can now move to the next step.

==== pyBox2D Installation ====

  # Download the latest source distribution of pyBox2D: http://pybox2d.googlecode.com/files/pyBox2D-2.0.1b4-Source.zip
  # Place the file onto your Desktop  
  # Open Terminal.app located in the Applications/Utilities folder
  # Then enter the following into the terminal window:
{{{
cd ~/Desktop
unzip pyBox2D-*-Source.zip
cd pyBox2D-*-Source/Box2D/Source
make
python setup.py build
}}}
  # If you get this error: `ld: warning in Gen/float/libbox2d.a, file is not of required architecture`, run `python setup.py build` again.
{{{
sudo python setup.py install
<ENTER THE ADMINISTRATOR/ROOT PASSWORD>
}}}
  # Hopefully all went well and no errors occurred.
  # Close the Terminal.app window

==== Test pyBox2D Installation (optional) ====

  # NOTE: The pyBox2D testbed examples require pygame.
  # Download pygame from: http://www.pygame.org/download.shtml
  # For a simple gui installer download (as on pygame site): http://rene.f0o.com/~rene/stuff/macosx/pygame-1.8.0rc5-py2.5-macosx10.4.mpkg.zip
  # To test if the pyBox2D installation works we can see if the testbed examples included in the distribution run
{{{
cd ~/Desktop/pyBox2D-*-Source/Box2D/Python/testbed
python demos.py
}}}
  # At this stage take a look at the other examples provided. They are a good starting point to get an idea of how pyBox2D works.
  # For documentation / technical support to further your software development experience see the links on the project home page.