#summary Projects, games, and anything using pybox2d
#labels Featured

=== In Academia ===
 * [http://www.kirp.chtf.stuba.sk/pc11/data/abstracts/053.html Michal Sedlák]'s _Simulation of 2D Physics of Objects Captured by Web Camera Using OpenCV and Box2D_.

=== Libraries / Add-ons / Learning Utilities ===

 * [http://mekanimo.net/ Mekanimo] Simulation designer for games/learning/etc. with nice GUI and export options
 * [http://sifter.org/~simon/aichallenge/01/challenge.html Simon Funk's AI Challenge] An interesting AI challenge for everyone
 * [http://home.gna.org/box2dsimulator/Html/index.html Box2dSimulator] A 2D physics engine for long run robotic experiments
 * [http://code.google.com/p/pybox2d-foil/ pybox2d-foil] Airfoil physics simulation for pyBox2D by [http://code.google.com/u/snickell/ snickell]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/pytform/ pytform] Work in progress pyglet 2d polygon-based game development kit
 * [http://elements.linuxuser.at/ Elements] Work in progress simplified physics API (dead?)
 * [http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Physics_(activity) OLPC Physics Activity] Basis for the OLPC Physics [http://developers.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=08/08/18/2258228 Game Jam]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/pygame-symbian-s60/ Symbian] S60 / PyS60 build of pybox2d

=== Games ===

 * [http://www.pygame.org/project-Bricks+Knock+Off-1712-.html Bricks Knock Off] Knock the bricks off the platform to win (pybox2d 2.1)
 * [http://www.pyweek.org/e/RohypnolTappper/ Nein] is a 2D physics sandbox based around animal cruelty. Specifically, animal cruelty towards a cat.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/pybotwar/ pybotwar] is a fun and educational game where players create computer programs to control simulated robots to compete in a battle arena
 * [http://ew.dy.fi/code/random/wiki/Torqueball Torqueball] is a cool single player platform/puzzle game with a level editor ([http://forum.openhandhelds.org/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=1031 help] the author make levels)
 * [http://cd21.org/games/the-bird-eating-macaque/ The Bird-eating Macaque] by cap ([http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/2009/02/08/the-bird-eating-macaque-final/ LD page])
 * [http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/2008/08/10/junktowers-final/ Junktowers] by Papper, his submission to the 48 hour solo game development competition [http://www.ludumdare.com/ Ludum Dare]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/gamecomp/ NaN]'s "The day mom tied us together", fun and innovative little side scroller (with a cool intro) ([http://www.pyweek.org/e/NaN7/ PyWeek page])
 * [http://nuigroup.com/forums/viewthread/3200/ tPhysics], a Multi-Touch Physics Sandbox. Video demo looks like fun! (should use b2PolygonDef.checkValues() to fix the polygon problems)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/mazes/ Mazes] by benjamin.debski, a conversion of his old hand-drawn paper mazes into a game

=== Up and Coming ===

Some WIP projects to keep an eye on:

 * [http://code.google.com/p/gerasene/ gerasene] "For we are many - an AI tactics game for programmers"
 * [http://code.google.com/p/boxfight-python/ boxfight-python] Control a box which would fight against other box ala bumper car. Until you win. 
 * [http://vizi.dasa.cc/ Vizi] "An aspiring digital-audio-workstation implemented in an unconventional manner" ([http://groups.google.com/group/pyglet-users/browse_thread/thread/8a18b7011d8a0d59?pli=1 note])
 * [http://elemel.se/games.html elemel]'s games: Nucleus (fast-paced puzzle game), Cannonball, Void (retro space shooter), Mortified (2D platform RPG)
 * [http://github.com/ddunwoody/adastra adastra], by ddunwoody
 * [http://www.gamecreation.org/~quadropus/ Quadropus], a puzzle-platformer where the player must balance the use of four tentacles to solve a variety of environmental puzzles
 * [http://code.google.com/p/littlepyballgame/ littlepyballgame] It's a little Python ball game...

=== Physics Jam Results 2008 ===

The OLPC Physics jam took place on Aug 29-31, 2008. The results from the groups are here:

 * [http://rollcats.com/ Rollcats]
 * [http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Bridge Bridge]
 * [http://wiki.laptop.org/go/XOlympics XOlympics]
 * [http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Babel Babel]

=== Others? ===

Please let me know if you use pybox2d in any of your projects, and I will gladly link to them here.